Al-Ahqaf The wind-curved sandhills
Chapter 46 Al-Ahqaf 35 verses, Mecca
1. HaMeem. (These letters are one of the miracles of the Quran, and none but Allah (Alone) knows
their meanings).
2. The revelation of the Book (this Quran) is from Allah, the All-Mighty, the All-Wise.
3. We created not the heavens and the earth and all that is between them except with truth, and for an
appointed term. But those who disbelieve turn away from that whereof they are warned.
4. Say (O Muhammad SAW to these pagans): "Think! All that you invoke besides Allah show me!
What have they created of the earth? Or have they a share in (the creation of) the heavens? Bring me
a Book (revealed before this), or some trace of knowledge (in support of your claims), if you are
truthful!"
5. And who is more astray than one who calls (invokes) besides Allah, such as will not answer him
till the Day of Resurrection, and who are (even) unaware of their calls (invocations) to them?
6. And when mankind are gathered (on the Day of Resurrection), they (false deities) will become
enemies for them and will deny their worshipping.
7. And when Our Clear Verses are recited to them, the disbelievers say of the truth (this Quran),
when it reaches them: "This is plain magic!"
8. Or say they: "He (Muhammad SAW) has fabricated it." Say: "If I have fabricated it, still you have
no power to support me against Allah. He knows best of what you say among yourselves concerning
it (i.e. this Quran)! Sufficient is He for a witness between me and you! And He is the Oft-Forgiving,
the Most Merciful."
9. Say (O Muhammad SAW):"I am not a new thing among the Messengers (of Allah) (i.e. I am not
the first Messenger) nor do I know what will be done with me or with you. I only follow that which
is revealed to me, and I am but a plain warner."
10. Say: "Tell me! If this (Quran) is from Allah, and you deny it, and a witness from among the
Children of Israel (Abdullah bin Salam ÑÖì ) testifies that this Quran is from Allah (like the Taurat
(Torah)), so he believed (embraced Islam) while you are too proud (to believe)." Verily! Allah
guides not the people who are Zalimoon (polytheists, disbelievers and wrong-doing).
11. And those who disbelieve (strong and wealthy) say of those who believe (weak and poor): "Had
it (Islamic Monotheism to which Muhammad SAW is inviting mankind) been a good thing, they
(weak and poor) would not have preceded us thereto!" And when they have not let themselves be
guided by it (this Quran), they say: "This is an ancient lie!"
12. And before this was the Scripture of Moosa (Moses) as a guide and a mercy. And this is a
confirming Book (the Quran) in the Arabic language, to warn those who do wrong, and as glad
tidings to the Muhsinoon (good-doers - see V.2:112).
13. Verily, those who say: "Our Lord is (only) Allah," and thereafter Istaqamoo (i.e. stood firm and
straight on the Islamic Faith of Monotheism by abstaining from all kinds of sins and evil deeds
which Allah has forbidden and by performing all kinds of good deeds which He has ordained), on
them shall be no fear, nor shall they grieve.
14. Such shall be the dwellers of Paradise, abiding therein (forever), a reward for what they used to
do.
15. And We have enjoined on man to be dutiful and kind to his parents. His mother bears him with
hardship and she brings him forth with hardship, and the bearing of him, and the weaning of him is
thirty (30) months, till when he attains full strength and reaches forty years, he says: "My Lord!
Grant me the power and ability that I may be grateful for Your Favour which You have bestowed
upon me and upon my parents, and that I may do righteous good deeds, such as please You, and
make my off-spring good. Truly, I have turned to You in repentance, and truly, I am one of the
Muslims (submitting to Your Will)."
16. They are those from whom We shall accept the best of their deeds and overlook their evil deeds.
(They shall be) among the dwellers of Paradise, a promise of truth, which they have been promised.
17. But he who says to his parents: "Fie upon you both! Do you hold out the promise to me that I
shall be raised up (again) when generations before me have passed away (without rising)?" While
they (father and mother) invoke Allah for help (and rebuke their son): "Woe to you! Believe! Verily,
the Promise of Allah is true." But he says: "This is nothing but the tales of the ancient."
18. They are those against whom the Word (of torment) is justified among the previous generations
of jinns and mankind that have passed away. Verily! They are ever the losers.
19. And for all, there will be degrees according to that which they did, that He (Allah) may
recompense them in full for their deeds. And they will not be wronged.
20. On the Day when those who disbelieve (in the Oneness of Allah Islamic Monotheism) will be
exposed to the Fire (it will be said): "You received your good things in the life of the world, and you
took your pleasure therein. Now this Day you shall be recompensed with a torment of humiliation,
because you were arrogant in the land without a right, and because you used to rebel and disobey
(Allah).
21. And remember (Hood) the brother of Ad, when he warned his people in Al-Ahqaf (the curved
sand-hills in the southern part of Arabian Peninsula). And surely, there have passed away warners
before him and after him (saying): "Worship none but Allah; truly, I fear for you the torment of a
mighty Day."
22. They said: "Have you come to turn us away from our aliha (gods)? Then bring us that with which
you threaten us, if you are one of the truthful!"
23. He said: "The knowledge (of the time of its coming) is with Allah only, and I convey to you that
wherewith I have been sent, but I see that you are a people given to ignorance!"
24. Then, when they saw it as a dense cloud coming towards their valleys, they said: "This is a cloud
bringing us rain!" Nay, but it is that (torment) which you were asking to be hastened! a wind wherein
is a painful torment!
25. Destroying everything by the Command of its Lord! So they became such that nothing could be
seen except their dwellings! Thus do We recompense the people who are Mujrimoon (polytheists,
disbelievers, sinners, etc.)!
26. And indeed We had firmly established them with that wherewith We have not established you (O
Quraish)! And We had assigned them the (faculties of) hearing (ears), seeing (eyes), and hearts, but
their hearing (ears), seeing (eyes), and their hearts availed them nothing since they used to deny the
Ayat (Allahs Prophets and their Prophethood, proofs, evidences, verses, signs, revelations, etc.) of
Allah, and they were completely encircled by that which they used to mock at!
27. And indeed We have destroyed towns (populations) round about you, and We have (repeatedly)
shown (them) the Ayat (proofs, evidences, verses, lessons, signs, revelations, etc.) in various ways
that they might return (to the truth and believe in the Oneness of Allah - Islamic Monotheism).
28. Then why did those whom they had taken for aliha (gods) besides Allah, as a way of approach
(to Allah) not help them? Nay, but they vanished completely from them (when there came the
torment). And that was their lie, and their inventions which they had been inventing (before their
destruction).
29. And (remember) when We sent towards you (Muhammad SAW) Nafran (three to ten persons) of
the jinns, (quietly) listening to the Quran, when they stood in the presence thereof, they said: "Listen
in silence!" And when it was finished, they returned to their people, as warners.
30. They said: "O our people! Verily! We have heard a Book (this Quran) sent down after Moosa
(Moses), confirming what came before it, it guides to the truth and to a Straight Path (i.e. Islam).
31. O our people! Respond (with obedience) to Allahs Caller (i.e. Allahs Messenger Muhammad
SAW), and believe in him (i.e. believe in that which Muhammad SAW has brought from Allah and
follow him). He (Allah) will forgive you of your sins, and will save you from a painful torment (i.e.
Hell-fire) .
32. And whosoever does not respond to Allahs Caller, he cannot escape on earth, and there will be
no Auliya (protectors) for him besides Allah (from Allahs Punishment). Those are in manifest error.
33. Do they not see that Allah, Who created the heavens and the earth, and was not wearied by their
creation, is Able to give life to the dead? Yes, He surely is Able to do all things.
34. And on the Day when those who disbelieve will be exposed to the Fire (it will be said to them):
"Is this not the truth?" They will say: "Yes, By our Lord!" He will say: "Then taste the torment,
because you used to disbelieve!"
35. Therefore be patient (O Muhammad SAW) as did the Messengers of strong will and be in no
haste about them (disbelievers). On the Day when they will see that (torment) with which they are
promised (i.e. threatened, it will be) as if they had not stayed more than an hour in a single day. (O
mankind! This Quran is sufficient as) a clear Message (or proclamation to save yourself from
destruction). But shall any be destroyed except the people who are Al-Fasiqoon (the rebellious,
disobedient to Allah).
Muhammad
Chapter 47 Muhammad 38 verses, Madina
1. Those who disbelieve (in the Oneness of Allah, and in the Message of Prophet Muhammad
SAW ), and hinder (men) from the Path of Allah (Islamic Monotheism), He will render their deeds
vain .
2. But those who believe and do righteous good deeds, and believe in that which is sent down to
Muhammad (SAW), for it is the truth from their Lord, He will expiate from them their sins, and will
make good their state.
3. That is because those who disbelieve follow falsehood, while those who believe follow the truth
from their Lord. Thus does Allah set forth their parables for mankind.
4. So, when you meet (in fight Jihad in Allahs Cause), those who disbelieve smite at their necks till
when you have killed and wounded many of them, then bind a bond firmly (on them, i.e. take them
as captives). Thereafter (is the time) either for generosity (i.e. free them without ransom), or ransom
(according to what benefits Islam), until the war lays down its burden. Thus (you are ordered by
Allah to continue in carrying out Jihad against the disbelievers till they embrace Islam (i.e. are saved
from the punishment in the Hell-fire) or at least come under your protection), but if it had been
Allahs Will, He Himself could certainly have punished them (without you). But (He lets you fight),
in order to test you, some with others. But those who are killed in the Way of Allah, He will never let
their deeds be lost,
5. He will guide them and set right their state.
6. And admit them to Paradise which He has made known to them (i.e. they will know their places in
Paradise more than they used to know their houses in the world).
7. O you who believe! If you help (in the cause of) Allah, He will help you, and make your foothold
firm.
8. But those who disbelieve (in the Oneness of Allah Islamic Monotheism), for them is destruction,
and (Allah) will make their deeds vain.
9. That is because they hate that which Allah has sent down (this Quran and Islamic laws, etc.), so
He has made their deeds fruitless.
10. Have they not travelled through the earth, and seen what was the end of those before them? Allah
destroyed them completely and a similar (fate awaits) the disbelievers.
11. That is because Allah is the Maula (Lord, Master, Helper, Protector, etc.) of those who believe,
and the disbelievers have no Maula (lord, master, helper, protector, etc.).
12. Certainly! Allah will admit those who believe (in the Oneness of Allah Islamic Monotheism) and
do righteous good deeds, to Gardens under which rivers flow (Paradise), while those who disbelieve
enjoy themselves and eat as cattle eat, and the Fire will be their abode.
13. And many a town, stronger than your town (Makkah) (O Muhammad SAW) which has driven
you out We have destroyed. And there was none to help them.
14. Is he who is on a clear proof from his Lord, like those for whom their evil deeds that they do are
beautified for them, while they follow their own lusts (evil desires)?
15. 2>The description of Paradise which the Muttaqoon (pious - see V.2:2) have been promised is
that in it are rivers of water the taste and smell of which are not changed; rivers of milk of which the
taste never changes; rivers of wine delicious to those who drink; and rivers of clarified honey (clear
and pure) therein for them is every kind of fruit; and forgiveness from their Lord. (Are these) like
those who shall dwell for ever in the Fire, and be given, to drink, boiling water, so that it cuts up
their bowels?
16. And among them are some who listen to you (O Muhammad SAW) till, when they go out from
you, they say to those who have received knowledge: "What has he said just now? Such are men
whose hearts Allah has sealed, and they follow their lusts (evil desires).
17. While as for those who accept guidance, He increases their guidance, and bestows on them their
piety.
18. Do they then await (anything) other than the Hour, that it should come upon them suddenly? But
some of its portents (indications and signs) have already come, and when it (actually) is on them,
how can they benefit then by their reminder?
19. So know (O Muhammad SAW) that La ilaha ill-Allah (none has the right to be worshipped but
Allah), and ask forgiveness for your sin, and also for (the sin of) believing men and believing
women. And Allah knows well your moving about, and your place of rest (in your homes).
20. Those who believe say: "Why is not a Soorah (chapter of the Quran) sent down (for us)? But
when a decisive Soorah (explaining and ordering things) is sent down, and fighting (Jihad holy
fighting in Allahs Cause) is mentioned (i.e. ordained) therein, you will see those in whose hearts is a
disease (of hypocrisy) looking at you with a look of one fainting to death. But it was better for them
(hypocrites, to listen to Allah and to obey Him).
21. Obedience (to Allah) and good words (were better for them). And when the matter (preparation
for Jihad) is resolved on, then if they had been true to Allah, it would have been better for them.
22. Would you then, if you were given the authority, do mischief in the land, and sever your ties of
kinship?
23. Such are they whom Allah has cursed, so that He has made them deaf and blinded their sight.
24. Do they not then think deeply in the Quran, or are their hearts locked up (from understanding it)?
25. Verily, those who have turned back (have apostated) as disbelievers after the guidance has been
manifested to them, Shaitan (Satan) has beautified for them (their false hopes), and (Allah)
prolonged their term (age).
26. This is because they said to those who hate what Allah has sent down: "We will obey you in part
of the matter," but Allah knows their secrets.
27. Then how (will it be) when the angels will take their souls at death, smiting their faces and their
backs?
28. That is because they followed that which angered Allah, and hated that which pleased Him. So
He made their deeds fruitless.
29. Or do those in whose hearts is a disease (of hypocrisy), think that Allah will not bring to light all
their hidden ill-wills?
30. Had We willed, We could have shown them to you, and you should have known them by their
marks, but surely, you will know them by the tone of their speech! And Allah knows all your deeds.
31. And surely, We shall try you till We test those who strive hard (for the Cause of Allah) and the
patient ones, and We shall test your facts (i.e. the one who is a liar, and the one who is truthful).
32. Verily, those who disbelieve, and hinder (men) from the Path of Allah (i.e. Islam), and oppose
the Messenger ( SAW) (by standing against him and hurting him), after the guidance has been
clearly shown to them, they will not hurt Allah in the least, but He will make their deeds fruitless,
33. O you who believe! Obey Allah, and obey the Messenger (Muhammad SAW) and render not
vain your deeds.
34. Verily, those who disbelieve, and hinder (men) from the Path of Allah (i.e. Islam); then die while
they are disbelievers, Allah will not forgive them.
35. So be not weak and ask not for peace (from the enemies of Islam), while you are having the
upper hand. Allah is with you, and will never decrease the reward of your good deeds.
36. The life of this world is but play and pastime, but if you believe (in the Oneness of Allah Islamic
Monotheism), and fear Allah, and avoid evil, He will grant you your wages, and will not ask you
your wealth.
37. If He were to ask you of it, and press you, you would covetously withhold, and He will bring out
all your (secret) ill-wills.
38. Behold! You are those who are called to spend in the Cause of Allah, yet among you are some
who are niggardly. And whoever is niggardly, it is only at the expense of his ownself. But Allah is
Rich (Free of all wants), and you (mankind) are poor. And if you turn away (from Islam and the
obedience of Allah), He will exchange you for some other people, and they will not be your likes.